Football, Meat Pies, Kangaroos (and Holden Cars) was a painful 1970s advert representing icons of Australian life, which are familiar enough to those of us who have grown up with them.

But our migrant neighbours, who already struggle with English as a language, face the additional barrier of trying to understand what on earth we carry on about - especially during the winter sports season.

The Ashburton congregation began in the 1950s and grew rapidly with post-war resettlement. It was well-placed to serve the new wave of mostly UK migrants who were billeted in the (equally iconic) Nissen huts "down the hill" in Holmesglen. Members were very active in demonstrating God's love in practical ways to help the newcomers cope with Aussie life and not-quite-English lingo. The congregation was also active in conducting social & sports activities, at a time when the area was still developing and the "community spirit" was only in its infancy.

Today the congregation is much smaller but there is a new wave of migration as the area boasts a growing Asian population of both permanent residents (coming to rejuvenate the old area) and international students attending the upgraded Holmesglen TAFE/University.

The present congregation has accepted the challenge to again demonstrate God's love to new Australians by reaching out with an ESL program (now in its fourth year) and plans for a cross-cultural ministry - you might call it "Ashburton: The Next Generation."

Beginning with a generous bequest from within the congregation, and a grant from the Ministry Development Committee, Ashburton has engaged Mook Lee, formerly a member of the Canterbury congregation, as a cross-cultural worker. Mook is an Australian-born second generation Korean and, with his wife Ashley and son Jethro, will spearhead a re-plant of the Ashburton congregation. 

His initial task will be to assist ESL students who enquire about the Christian faith to find their spiritual home within the Church as believers in the Lord Jesus, and eventually to integrate them into the Ashburton congregation.

Whilst official funding support will be assessed annually, the congregation is looking at a five year program. With additional families joining to build up the team, the plan is to further expand the ESL program and to reach new members of the local community who are feeling their way in an unfamiliar culture and assist them in settling into the Australian way of life.

Other avenues of ministry may include providing practical forms of help and fellowship, demonstrating God's care for people isolated by language and cultural barriers, and drawing them into the community and the church, or seeking opportunities to serve on- and off-campus students at Holmesglen TAFE/University.

Matt 9:36-38 "But when He saw the multitudes, He was moved with compassion for them, because they were weary and scattered, like sheep having no shepherd. Then He said to His disciples, 'The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest.' "