The Ashburton congregation began in the 1950s and quickly moved to serve the migrants billeted in the iconic Nissen huts down the hill in Holmesglen. Members were active in demonstrating God's love in practical ways to help the newcomers cope with Aussie life after the strife of war-torn Europe, before they were moved to other locations.

In this 21st century there is a new wave of Asian migration, both permanent and temporary, and the Ashburton/Holmesglen area is undergoing major redevelopment.

Today the congregation is much smaller but continues to demonstrate God's love to new Australians by reaching out with an ESL program (now in its fourth year). However, teaching the essentials of conversational English didn't seem to be meet all the needs expressed by our students, particularly as they asked questions and reported on their experience using their growing language skills.

So the curriculum has included material on Australian culture and history, discussing such things as ANZAC Day and Aussie Rules football, John Flynn and the Flying Doctor Service (the gospel on a $20 note!), and common language shortcuts (Aussie slang other than the bad language, of course).

Students have taken giant steps forward in exploring Aussie life but two special activities stood out in 2016. Thanks to the AFL's Community Support Ticketing Program, our students enjoyed attending a wintry AFL football match at the MCG, complete with team scarves, beanies, meat pies and enthusiastic supporters. 

The best-known Australian icon would be the kangaroo, but most of our students have seen them only at a zoo, or in photos. So on two occasions they were able to enjoy a trip to Churchill National Park, Lysterfield, hopefully to see them in the wild, moving naturally. Both visits were successful, and we followed the walk with a delicious afternoon tea at the nearby home of one of our congregation.

These events were especially good times of fellowship, and many quality relationships have been built both among the students and with the broaded congregation. This has enabled us to be more open about our Christian faith, to pray specifically at the end of each class, and to demonstrate God's love outside of class times. Not only does this make it easier to discuss seasons such as Easter and Christmas, but to see that God's love can break down all kinds of barriers (Eph 2:14).
