Kangaroo Ground:
Dramatic changes in population and in community attitudes require a fresh approach to bringing the eternal message of Good News in Jesus to a world which still needs to hear the "old, old, story" but in fresh ways.

Like the nation of Israel facing the Jordan River crossing, we have to make a new beginning, whilst retaining the important aspects of the past. The river parted and they crossed on dry ground (just as their parents did at the Red Sea) but instead of wandering in the wilderness, they march purposefully around the city of Jericho. 

The congregation at Kangaroo Ground has a long history of faithfulness to the Gospel task and especially to missions work through its association with the Australian base of Wycliffe Bible Translators.
[Insert brief history]

Along with other congregations across the PCV, KG has been through a lengthy lean period, but the Session realizes that it can't live on past memories. 

Steven Kilner is currently completing his training at the PTC, and has been appointed to the charge to work with the Session on the "new" strategy.

Steven (now aged 36) grew up attending a Baptist church from age six, and began his Christian walk from his twenties, convicted by the Holy Spirit about justification by faith after reading Martin Lloyd Jones on Romans 5. Since then he has had the growing conviction that his calling was to pastoral ministry. He delayed responding to that call but admits: "the desire within strengthened and the calling became a constraint. Consequently, I decided to actively pursue this calling and choose the best place possible to study. Due to its pastoral focus, and high academic standard, PTC was the obvious choice." 

Steven's wife, Jodie also grew up in a Christian home, and came to faith in her teens. Now 29 years old, she loves playing guitar/piano, painting and reading novels. She has just completed her diploma of nursing and plans to work in a nearby hospital. They have three young children, all keen on sports, and thus are likely to relish the wide open spaces at KG, as well as enjoy the blessings of their Christian heritage.

The Session has plans to...


Steven has an optimistic outlook and is undaunted by the scale of the task: "Due to the Lord's providence the journey will begin at Kangaroo Ground. We are all excited as a family to pursue this ministry calling and look forward to how the Lord will use us all in the years ahead."

